Readme.md feedback (#98)
nginx/nginx: README.md

![NGINX Banner](docs/img/logo.png "NGINX Banner")

> NGINX (pronounced "engine x" or "en-jin-eks") is the world's most popular Web Server, high performance Load Balancer, Reverse Proxy, API Gateway and Content Cache.

Reviewer: This is a wonderful opportunity to rework the official description of what the NGINX project is.

How do we order and mention the primary capabilities? What about TCP, UDP and email protocol proxying?

I have a parallel effort to revise this description for the nginx.org website so very happy to collaborate on this.

> NGINX is free and open source software, distributed under the terms of a simplified [2-clause BSD-like license](LICENSE.md).

Reviewer: LICENSE should remain plain text IMO.

Reviewer 2: It is now. C-style comments were also removed from the file by a previous PR

> A commercial version, [NGINX Plus](https://www.f5.com/products/nginx/nginx-plus), with additional enterprise features and support, is available from [F5, Inc](https://www.f5.com/).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Enterprise distributions, commercial support and training are available from [F5, Inc](https://www.f5.com/products/nginx).
```
This is the phrasing I'm working with for nginx.org - there is a lot more than just NGINX Plus now.

Reviewer 2: Updated in the final version

> [!IMPORTANT]
> Official NGINX package distributions are built with all native open source static modules.

## Configurations
NGINX is highly flexible and configurable. Provisioning the software is achieved via text-based config file(s) organized in functional sections called "Contexts", accepting a vast amount of configuration parameters called "[Directives](https://nginx.org/en/docs/dirindex.html)". See [Configuration File's Structure](https://nginx.org/en/docs/beginners_guide.html#conf_structure) for a comprehensive definition of Directives and Contexts.

> [!NOTE]
> The set of directives available to your distribution of NGINX is dependent on which [modules](#modules) have been made available to it.

## Runtime
Rather than running in a single, monolithic processes, NGINX is architected to scale beyond OS process stack limitations. To achieve this, the software operates as a collection of processes that include:
- A "master" process that maintains worker processes, as well as, reads and evaluates configuration files.
- One or more "worker" processes that process data (eg. HTTP requests).

> By default, the number of [worker processes](https://nginx.org/en/docs/ngx_core_module.html#worker_processes) is set to equal the number of CPU cores on the system. In most cases, this optimally balances load across available system resources, as NGINX is designed to efficiently distribute work across all available worker processes.

Reviewer: The default is `1` and the nginx.conf [in this repo](https://github.com/nginx/nginx/blob/master/conf/nginx.conf#L3) still has
```nginx
worker_processes  1;
```
Perhaps we should recommend `auto` here instead?

Reviewer 2: Updated in the final version

> [!TIP]
> Processes synchronize data through shared memory. For this reason, many NGINX directives require the allocation of shared memory zones. As an example, when configuring [rate limiting](https://nginx.org/en/docs/http/ngx_http_limit_req_module.html#limit_req), connecting clients must be tracked in a [common memory zone](https://nginx.org/en/docs/http/ngx_http_limit_req_module.html#limit_req_zone) so all worker processes can know how many times a particular client has accessed the server in a span of time.

# Downloading and installing
Follow these steps to download and install precompiled NGINX binaries. You may also choose to [build the module locally from source code](#building-from-source).

> ## Stable and Mainline binaries

Reviewer: This will be the third place where we discuss and recommend branches. And it will add confusion. I'm not convinced the README is the right place for this. But either way, we should be consistent between blog posts on this topic and the admin guide.

There is an active community discussion about the on [Slack](https://nginxcommunity.slack.com/archives/C02MRSU7CKT/p1721935719453809)

Reviewer 2: I ended up linking to the explanation on docs.nginx.com. It's less than ideal since the reader needs to move from an OSS resource to an F5 corporate one, but the explanation on nginx.org didn't seem clear enough to cite.

### Installation instructions
Once a repository has been added and authenticated, follow [these steps](https://nginx.org/en/linux_packages.html) to install NGINX binaries using the package manager native to your Linux distribution.

## FreeBSD installation process
For more information on installing NGINX on FreeBSD system, visit https://nginx.org/en/docs/install.html

## Windows executables
Windows executables for mainline and stable versions can be found on the main [NGINX download page](https://nginx.org/en/download.html). Note that the current implementation of NGINX for Windows is at the Proof-of-Concept stage and can only be used for development and testing purposes.

## Dynamic modules
NGINX version 1.9.11 added support for [Dynamic Modules](https://nginx.org/en/docs/ngx_core_module.html#load_module). Unlike standard, Static modules, which must be complied into NGINX binaries at build-time, Dynamic modules can be downloaded, installed, and configured at any point. [Official dynamic module binaries](https://nginx.org/en/linux_packages.html#dynmodules) are available from the same package repository as the core NGINX binaries described in previous steps.

> [!TIP]

> > [NGINX JavaScript (NJS)](https://github.com/nginx/njs), is a popular NGINX dynamic module that enables the extension of core NGINX functionality using familiar JavaScript syntax.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
> [NGINX JavaScript (njs)](https://github.com/nginx/njs), is a popular NGINX dynamic module that enables the extension of core NGINX functionality using familiar JavaScript syntax.
```

## Rate limiting
See our [Rate Limiting with NGINX](https://blog.nginx.org/blog/rate-limiting-nginx) blog post for an overview of a core concept of provisioning NGINX as an API Gateway.

## Content caching
See [A Guide to Caching with NGINX and NGINX Plus](https://blog.nginx.org/blog/nginx-caching-guide) blog post for an overview of how to use NGINX as a content cache (e.g. edge server of a content delivery network).

# Building from source
The following steps can be used to build NGINX the source code available in this repository.

## Installing dependencies
Most Linux distributions will require several dependencies to be installed in order to build NGINX. The following instructions are specific to the `apt` package manager, widely available on most Ubuntu/Debian distributions and their derivatives.

> [!TIP]
> It is always a good idea to update your package repository lists prior to installing new packages. 
> ```bash
> sudo apt update
> ```

### Installing compiler and make utility
Use the following command to install the GNU C compiler and Make utility.

```bash
sudo apt install gcc make
```

> ### Installing dependency libraries

Reviewer: IMHO this should be part of the install-from-source docs on nginx.org

Reviewer 2: Agree, but the only reason I went forward with this is because there wasn't a clear step-by-step guide on .org, where the docs make an assumption that the reader knows how to install these utilities. I thought it'd be important to provide one here, at least until the appropriate content changes are made on .org.

Reviewer 2: @y82 please see above. Any thoughts on simplifying the build docs on .org to include all necessary steps?

```bash
curl localhost
```

The output of which should start with:

```html
<!DOCTYPE html>
<html>
<head>
<title>Welcome to nginx!</title>
```

# Technical specifications
Pre-built NGINX binaries are available and supported across a wide number of operating systems. Please refer to [this complete list](https://nginx.org/en/) of operating systems, architectures, libraries and other features supported by NGINX.

## Supported distributions
A [complete list of available Linux packages](https://nginx.org/en/linux_packages.html#distributions) can be found on the binary download page.

See [Tested OS Platforms](https://nginx.org/en/#tested_os_and_platforms) for a  list of operating systems that NGINX is confirmed to run on.

## Windows 
Windows support is tested on Windows XP, Windows Server 2003, Windows 7, Windows 10. [Windows executables](https://nginx.org/en/download.html) can be found on the download page. Note that the current implementation of NGINX for Windows is at the Proof-of-Concept stage and can only be used for development and testing purposes.

## Supported deployment environments
- Container
- Public cloud (AWS, Google Cloud Platform, Microsoft Azure)
- Virtual machine

> # Asking questions and reporting issues

Reviewer: This should be consistent with what we say at https://nginx.org/en/community.html

Reviewer 2: That resource on nginx.org is the one that needs to match info in the Readme. @y82 can it be updated?

We encourage you to engage with us.
- [NGINX GitHub Discussions](https://github.com/nginx/nginx/discussions), is the go-to place to start asking questions and sharing your thoughts.
- Our [GitHub Issues](https://github.com/nginx/nginx/issues) page offers space to submit and discuss specific issues

# Contributing code 
Please see the [Contributing](CONTRIBUTING.md) guide for information on how to contribute code.

# Additional help and resources
- See the [NGINX Community Blog](https://blog.nginx.org/) for more tips, tricks and HOW-TOs related to NGINX and related projects.
- Access [nginx.org](https://nginx.org/), your go-to source for all documentation, information and software related to the NGINX suite of projects.

# Changelog
See our [changelog](https://nginx.org/en/CHANGES) to keep track of updates.

# License
[2-clause BSD-like license](LICENSE)

---
Additional documentation available at: https://nginx.org/en/docs

> ©2024 F5, Inc. All rights reserved.

Reviewer: Is (c) absolutely necessary?

Reviewer 2: Removed the copyright line

> https://www.f5.com/products/nginx

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```
I think we can lose this as per my suggestion about "enterprise distributions"

Reviewer 2: Removed
